>> Richard Feldman: So why do these exist?
[LAUGH] Why have a distinction
between open and closed records?
Well we've seen quite a few examples and
one way you could think of it is,
well how would you do any of
those examples otherwise?
But it actually really
boils down to one thing,
which is essentially based
on the following example.
Let's say I have a type alias Model.
It's got a name which is a String,
age which is an Int, and
then Post which is a list of posts.
And in comparison, I have type Model
= Model String Int (List Post).
Now, we don't need a notion of records
at all if we have custom types,
as we can see here.
I mean, really this Model's
the same information, right?
In both cases,
I've got one value, named Model.
And it holds on to, a string and
Int, and a list of posts.
Now granted, its nice to be able to
tag these with names, like to say,
this is a name, this is age, this is post.
Especially because, what if several
of them, like most of those,
multiple version of them were strings.
I don't wanna have model,
string, string, string Int.
That's gonna be very confusing,
very error prone.
So records, you know,
make things less error prone.
There's clearly a use case.
But, strictly speaking
they don't need to exist.
And in fact there are plenty of
ML family languages like Elm,
which either don't have a record system or
have a record system that's not nearly
as flexible as the one that Elm has.
So why bother having them at all?
Essentially it's for this, and only this.
The ability to say record.name.
It's that dot syntax being able to say,
I know I've got a record.
I wanna access this field on there and
be certain that it exists.
If you want to have that and
you want to have type inference,
it's really hard to do that without
something like open records.
So that's the whole reason they exist.
And I mention this because there are a lot
of other things that they can be used for,
despite the fact that all they're intended
to be used for is literally this.
And this relevant, or potentially
relevant, because of the implications that
this might have for the future of the
language, which we'll get in to in a bit.
Okay, so here's one of the things that
they happen to be able to be used for
is naming arguments.
I talked about this is Elm Europe 2017.
So let's say I have a function called
validate, and it takes email, firstName,
and lastName, and it returns blah,
I don't know, some validation result.
Email, firstName, and lastName in
this example are all strings, so
anytime I see this as a type signature,
alarm bells go off in my head.
I'm like, okay, I'm gonna definitely mix
those up at some point in my life and
make a mistake.
One way to solve this is, by using
records as a means of creating sort
of pseudo named arguments,
or faux named arguments.
Some languages have first class
support for, that's like a feature.
It's named arguments.
But, we can do the same thing
in Elm using records if we want.
So I'm just saying, validate now takes
email, which is a string first name,
which is a string last name,
which is a string and
then I just destructure them immediately.
So as if I had,
I end up with the same things in
scope as with the previous version.
But now, the caller has to specify here
is the email, here is the first name,
here is the last name.
So it's no longer as error prone, but
now it doesn't support
partial application anymore.
So that's a trade-off.
It's a reasonable choice
to make either way.
But there's also one more way I can do it,
which is I can do the same thing as
the previous example,
except I can make this an open record.
And now, this means that I could
potentially do something like,
if my model happens to have a field called
email, and a field called firstName, and
a field called lastName.
I can just say hey, validate model, and
it would only use those three Fields
from the model which is in a lot of ways
better than taking the entire model as
an argument, and it'll still work
the same way as the others did.
So again, not something it was
designed to be used for, but
as it turns out it is
something we can use it for.
>> Richard Feldman: Another thing we can
potentially do to solve this same problem,
is to make one of them a custom type.
So let's say that instead of having email
be a string we said, you know what?
Email is a separate notion of a string.
I'm just gonna make
a custom type called Email.
Might even not bother making it opaque.
And just say, look, if we have an email,
that's a different thing
from having a string.
An email is just conceptually different,
it's a special type of string.
The second function I would
argue is not really error prone.
So it's taking Email,
firstName, and lastName.
Now granted, that is still taking two
string arguments right in a row, but
passing last name and
first name is not really a mistake I
don't think I've ever made in my career.
I always pass the first name and
then last name.
I could maybe get paranoid and do it even
more so than this, maybe use the record.
I don't think I would go as far as
making a custom type for firstName and
a custom type for lastName.
But you could if you were really concerned
about it, but I think this is a sort
of a more lightweight way of
solving the same problem.
Especially because email is likely to
come up in a lot of different places,
and having a custom type for
email is something that's gonna
pay off beyond just this function.
And, in fact, in this code base
I specifically did do this.
I actually made a custom type for
emails so
I can disambiguate when I have an email
versus I have some meaningless string, or
some sttring that I'm
not as concerned about.
>> Richard Feldman: So this is the way
that you could do it with an opaque type,
or even just a custom type that
doesn't happen to be opaque.
And finally, the other thing that you can
use open records for is for modeling data.
This is another unintended use for them.
So there is two ways to
do the following thing.
One was with the type parameter,
the other was with open record.
So we look at the open record way first.
So you say type alias Article a =
a pipe title, which is a string, and
tags which is a list of strings.
So this comes up in
the following scenario.
We have a feed full of
articles that we load.
And in that feed we'll have, I don't know,
maybe it's like 10, 20 articles something
like that, and each of them just
shows a preview of the article.
It has like a title and then the author,
and like a little blurb about it and
a link to read more.
Now also, sometimes articles
have a body that goes with them,
the entire text of the article.
And when we're reviewing
the article's page,
like where we click the link to read
more we view the entire article.
We want all this info, like the title,
the tags, and all of that, but
we also want the body.
So essentially we want two variations
on article, we wanna have one,
which is a preview of an article,
and then the other which is the full
article including the body.
Now when we're loading the feed,
we're not gonna get from the server the
entire text of all 20 articles, that would
be way too much data to transfer cuz
we're not gonna bother using it.
So the server's only gonna send
us the preview information.
But when we go to the full article,
we do want the body,
we want all the other stuff,
plus we want the body.
So how can we say I wanna have an article
that sort of shares these two pieces of
common information about
the metadata of the article,
but which separately has in some cases
a body, and in some cases does not?
A pretty common way that people reach for
to do this when they realize that
open records are a thing, is this.
Because it's available, and
it works for that use case.
You can also do it, though,
with a type parameter.
You can say, type alias Article a =, and
just add that type parameter on the end.
And essentially say, okay,
I've got some sort of article here,
that has some particular piece of
extra information associated with it.
So the problem over here is sort of like
what type would we extend this with?
If we're doing it using an open record,
that type must be a record,
whereas if we're just adding
it as a type parameter,
we can have it be whatever we
want in whatever field we want.
Could be a custom type, could be anything.